
### Interstellar Expansion

As far back as history remembers it, humanoids had slowly began to spread out in colonies throughout the galaxy - mainly by that of the type II civilizations: [[Human | Humans]] and [[Xel'naga | Xel'nagan]].


During this time Humans leave their home system: [[Tellus]]

Quickly Humans civilizations ran into a problem, with each planet they occupied there immediately began an issue of control. With communication so slow, colony planets began to function basically autonomously to their home world.

And with Humans having less order than their Xel'naga counter part, their home world soon had it's own problems and eventual revolution with all their resources being spent off world on colonies that became more and more independent with every passing day and new colonies being built farther and farther away.

When the Humans had a home world revolution, much or their colony efforts and attention was lost. Effectively abandoning any last support they gave to most of their colonies.

These colonies, especially those who were 5+ LY away, were abandoned for over 50 years to fend for themselves in often hostile environments that relied on outside support. Many colonies died out, only the lucky few who survived were already on choice worlds but they were still technologically crippled.

That was the first incident that began a history of colony planets being fiercely independent. It wasn't until the invention of wormholes that allowed up to whole solar systems to be alright in relying on outside aid.



